This lecture focuses on web scraping, how you can get data from web pages on the web
1. Internet in a nutshell
1.1 Internet is a network of networks
1.2 Each computer has an address, called IP (Internet Protocol) address (IPv4 IPv6)
1.3 Domain Name System (DNS) (was invented at ISI USC) (IP address are numbers which may be obsure to work with):
you normally look at Domain Name when you go to the web
Map IP address to nice hierarchical names.
1.4 The whole idea of Internet in a word:
Transmit some data from computerA to computerB (Host A / B)
Info was divided into different packets (small pieces) and every packet of your file may take a different route to
the Internet (routing protocol)
Packets have signed with destination (IP address)

2. Internet: Layered Architecture
From the bottom:
2.1 Link Layer (WiFI / routers)
2.2 Network Layer (IP) (sending packets around and finding routing protocol)
2.3 Transport Layer (TCP: transport control protocol) (guarantee reliable transfer)
assume IP might lose data, TCP will make sure to store the data
like a nice pipe, send data across computers and get data from it
2.4 Application Layer (HTTP: hypertext transfer protocol, Telnet...)

3. TCP connections / Sockets
endpoint of communication pipe, follows some protocols 
what do we want to do with the socket? -- application protocols: mail, world wide web, secure login

4. TCP Port Numbers
a number allows you to differentiate the types of data (web pages from broswer, email, 
vedios from zoom...) you wanna transmit 
HTTP: 80
HTTPS: 443

5. Most common application protocol, HTTP (hypertext transfer protocol)
a set of rules to allow browsers to retrieve web documents from servers
(protocol)://(host)/(document in this computer): http://www.dr-chuck.com/page1.htm

6. Get data from server
click on an anchor tag with href= value to switch to a new page, browser makes a connection to 
the remote web server and issues a GET request (get content of that specific URL), server returns the 
HTML document to the browser

7. We can make a HTTP request and http is a protocol

8. About characters and strings
ASCII is one of the encoding systems for strings
Standard ASCII represents 128 characters including spacial characters and capital and lower case letters
Extension ASCII can contain most of European characters

9. Representing simple strings
Each character is stored in 8 bits = byte of memory
The ord() function tells us the numeric value of a simple ASCII character
print(ord('H'))
72
UTF-8 is recommended practice for encoding data to be exchanged between systems

10. Python Strings to Bytes
When we talk to an external resource like a network socket we send bytes,
so we need to encode Python 3 strings into a given character encoding

When we read data from an external resource (web), we must decode it based on
the character set so it is properly represented in Python 3 as a string

11. Python Data Type: bytes
• A bit is a binary digit that can be “0” or “1”.
• A byte is a unit of digital information with 8 bits.
• It can represent 2⁸ = 256 different values.

12. 

